Let's start with managing the loading state here on the off screen because obviously I want to give
the user some feedback when we're currently waiting for a response.
For this we can import the activity indicator which you already know and manage the loading state here
by adding another state here is loading and set is loading which we initialize to false because initially
we aren't loading and now here when we are and is off handler I can add async here because of course
sign up here returns a promise the same for logging.
So these actions create or functions return promises so we can await for the result of dispatch which
ultimately uses these promises which we get and basically kicks off this entire process.
And before we await this I can set is loading to true.
So when we start this whole process before we sent the request and their offer set is loading to falls
once we're done with this request no matter if it failed or not.
And now is loading can be used to display a loading spinner.
It's up to you where you displayed as for example you could say that you want to replace this sign up
button with the loading spinner.
So here we could say if is loading is true.
I want to show the activity indicator like that.
Otherwise I'll show the button.
So this is a syntax we could use.
Set the size here to LA at 2:00 too small and to color two collars primary let's say now if we give
that a try and we go back here on IAW if I try logging in indeed as you the loading spinner and then
I'm back.
So that works now for the error handling for the error handling you all to learn how it works.
You can of course manage your error state here as well.
You could again also use use reducer to merge loading and error a state into one object but I'll do
it like this.
Error and set error with the help of use state which initially doesn't assign a value so that this is
undefined initially and then here we can wrap try catch around this dispatching here where we get a
potential error and set our error to does.
Error message we're getting back and before we send the request I also want to my set my error back
to to null is now we're storing a potential error here in set error.
And I just want to throw an alert show an alert to the user if we get an error.
So for this you need to make sure that you import alert from react native and also use effect from react
because use effect allows us react to changes in the error state and show the error alert if we have
an error so maybe here after setting up the reducer we can add use effect and my dependency here is
the error state variable or constant and if we have an error.
So if this is true ish then I want to show an alert with the alert API where I say an error occurred
and my message is the error which should be a string and I will add a button where I have a text of
OK and of course you could add more buttons where you do different things.
Now we can simulate this in the action creator by going there and for logging in let's say we remove
that D here so that this is incorrect you are Elena and if we now try logging in here
I get this error.
Then that's good.
But there also are other kind of errors which I want to handle for example what if I log in with the
e-mail address that doesn't exist of course I want to show an error to the user or two and I do but
I only show something went wrong which is not exactly the error I would like to show.
Now I was showing this error because indie action creator here if the response is not okay I froze something
went wrong.
No the problem is when we send out incorrect e-mail or incorrect password also by the way for signing
up if we send something which isn't the email or a password which is too short if that happens then
we'll get back a response with a status code of 400 something and we get some error details as part
of the response.
And right now with our error handling we don't see those.
So we need to change this instead of immediately throwing an error here.
If the response is not okay I still want to look into it.
So I will have my error response data which I get by a waiting for response.
Jason here so I do the same as in the success case but I extract that into a different field and now
here I want a console locked to our response data.
So did we get a feeling for how it is looks like.
So now let's try entering a e-mail address which doesn't exist again and now we get our strange error
which you just saw but now we have this interesting output here and you see does this the error object
firebase returned to me.
And of course it depends on the API you're talking to.
Which kind of error you're getting and when you're getting it and what details it includes this as you
see is the object which has an error key which is yet another object which has an error code some details
about the errors and then this message which is for example email not found and that's the part I'm
interested in the official docs by the way you'll find more potential error identifiers.
You could be getting so in yeah.
That's what I want to check now I want to get my error idea let's say from the error response data by
accessing the error field there which is this field which gives me access to this object which then
has this message field.
So therefore here I then access message to get this message and now we can check this we can check if
our I.D. is equal to email not found if that's the case I want to set my own customized message.
So here I'll will add a variable message which is just something went wrong by default.
But then here if we know the problem is that we didn't find the e-mail address we could say this email
could not be found and I'll add more if checks in a second.
So this is something I want to check here and in the end they offer I have a message which I now want
to throw.
So now I will throw a new error with my own customized message though so never check.
I want to add with Ailes of statement here is whoever the error idea is for signing in invalid password
let's say so I can check for that and set the message equal to this password is not valid and now let's
give this a number try.
Let's go back and enter the e-mail address which doesn't exist quick log in and we get this e-mail address
could not be found or this e-mail could not be found.
Now let's try a valid e-mail address but actually a password which is invalid like this and we get this
password is not valid.
So now we give the user a better feedback.
Now let's implement the same for signing up so I'll copy that and go to my sign up case here and there
I just have different error codes there.
I have codes like email exists.
If that e-mail address exists already.
So I extract my air I.D. the same way but then I check for email exists and if desist ERISA this email
exists already
there is actually only thing I want to check here.
There are obvious errors too which you could get and you can for example simply turn off your validation
here and see which area you're getting if you're sending e invalid e-mail address by logging that error
I.D. and then you can check for that.
Here I'll just implement this message and then for now if a try signing up here with an e-mail address
which I already did use like this I get this e-mail exists already on the other hand if I use a valid
e-mail address of course this just goes through and on firebase then indeed you go to authentication
and refresh this you will see that second user.
So this is how you can add a loading spinner and error handling with authentication.
That's all nice but now it would finally be nice to always leave that screen and go to our app and then
start working with that token which we're getting.